README.md, before:

# Will Helliwell

| [Linkedin](https://www.linkedin.com/in/will-helliwell-671807130/) | [Technologies](#Technologies) | [Experience](#Experience) |[Projects](#Projects) | [Education](#Education) | [Interests](#Other-Interests) | [Links](#Links) |

I am a Full-stack Developer, combining my tech experience with a commercial and Cambridge STEM background. I am passionate about working alongside clients to solve tricky business problems, with 3 years experience creating inventive workarounds for problems and leading on the delivery of greenfield projects serving thousands of customers at a London start-up. I now want to apply these skills to solve difficult problems for new clients in new contexts.


## Technologies

- PostgreSQL MySQL, MongoDB
- AWS
- React, TypeScript, Next.js, Node.js,  
- WordPress, PHP
- Ruby,  
- Bash, Git

## Experience

| Name and dates               | Description       | Tech/tools        |
| ---------------------------- | ----------------- | ----------------- |
| **Senior Full Stack Developer, Switchd**<br>(Jun’21- present) | •Third Engineering hire and now line manager, developing for Switchd (automated energy switching service, 12000 subscribers) and the nascent MakeMyHouseGreen (solar installations, 50 per month).<br>• I recommended, designed and built key infrastructure for MakeMyHouseGreen: e.g. scalable and secure storage for all install documents/images in an AWS S3 (6k documents across 4k sales leads).<br>• I am leading the transformation of ways of working as Switchd moves to becoming a scale-up. I created and trained the team to use a CICD pipeline with automated deployment to AWS, and now am implementing automated testing and migrating from PHP to a React, TypeScript and Node.js stack.<br>• I designed and built a backend for our energy tracking service allowing users to monitor the performance of their installs, consisting of automated and transactional calls to a third-party API to retrieve, store and process the data for display to our customers. I played a key role in rapidly iterating the product to raise the PMF to 35% (so far, from a growing customer base of 50).<br>• I have started a culture of code quality by reviewing others’ code and leading weekly code quality sessions for debate  and documentation of ways to help us all learn to write simple, clean and reusable code. Now junior team members are actively reviewing others’ code and often leading the sessions. | Next.js, React, TypeScript, AWS, Github Actions, PHP, JavasScript, MySQL, Bootstrap |
| **Food Buyer, Sainsbury’s Head Office, London**<br>(Apr’17– Jun’19) | • I was promoted after 11 months to Cafe Buyer, owning the design of trading strategy (responsible for 350 stores and a £60m annual spend). I made data-driven decisions to keep the margin flat.<br>• I developed strong communication, contributing to Agile meetings and building supplier relationships.<br>• Communication and collaboration -  increased salad sales 20% YoY by designing a new range. Debated with Operations to find a pragmatic solution to launch, reducing menu complexity elsewhere. | |

## Projects

| Name                         | Description       | Tech/tools        |
| ---------------------------- | ----------------- | ----------------- |
| [**Recipy**](https://github.com/Will-Helliwell/Recipy) | • A recipe app with infinite scroll, and  live-filtering of recipes. I paired with a teammate to build an ambitious web scraper, learning Puppeteer to extract 5000 recipes from bbcgoodfood.com. <br> • Improved team process - proposed and conducted daily knowledge sharing and feedback sessions, helping the team to collaborate and learn the new stack from each other. Deployed working software in small batches, completing almost all user-stories from an ambitious list in 2 weeks. | Node.js, React, Mongo DB, Puppeteer, Cypress|
| [**Whisky Tracker**](https://github.com/Will-Helliwell/whisky_tracker) | • My current ongoing side project - will save whisky-lovers’ time by tracking their favourite bottles across multiple sites using a web-scraper, emailing them when their desired price is reached. <br>• Following a tight BDD process to build from user-stories, using an MVC architecture. Current status: testing infrastructure, Travis continuous integration and user sign-in/up/out completed.| Rails, PostgreSQL, React |
| [**Essbok**](https://github.com/Will-Helliwell/essbok) | • A social media app developed as a team. Allows signed-in users to make and delete posts from a posts page (a single-page React app  that can dynamically change in an event-based manner).<br>• Used ActiveRecord and PostgreSQL to manage user and post data in a SQL database. <br>• Unit and integration tested. Deployed via a continuous integration/continuous delivery pipeline. | Rails, PostgreSQL, React |
| [**Bank Tech Test**](https://github.com/Will-Helliwell/bank_tech_test) | • A bank app solo project built in Ruby that can be interacted with via any Ruby REPL <br>• An example of a fully test-driven application built to a set of user stories following OO principles.<br>• 100% test coverage, 100% test-isolation using mocking. | Ruby, Rspec |

## Education

#### Makers Academy (November 20 to March 21)

Technologies and practices covered:<br>
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;• Object Oriented Programming<br>
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;• Testing and TDD (Rspec, Capybara, Jasmine, Cypress)<br>
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;• Agile/XP methodologies<br>
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;• Pair programming and group projects<br>
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;• MVC pattern<br>
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;• Full-stack frameworks (Ruby-on-Rails, MERN)<br>
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;• Front-end Frameworks (React, Bootstrap)<br>
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;• Databases: SQL (PostgreSQL) and no SQL (MongoDB)<br>
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;• Git, Travis CI, Heroku<br>

- I also volunteered as a mentor to help later students improve by giving both technical and general support.


#### Harvard CS50 (August 20 to present)

- I have now completed the C-based portion of the course to get a better understanding of how source code works ‘under the hood’.<br>

#### University of Cambridge (2013 to 2016)

- 2.1 in  Natural Sciences at Christ’s College, specialising in Developmental Biology and Cancer.<br>
- Used close attention to detail and data analysis to provide the first evidence for a specific signalling pathway in the nematode worm C.elegans. Clearly communicated the findings to a scientific panel.

#### RGS Guildford (2005 to 2012)

- A2 - Biology, Chemistry and Maths, all A* (98% UMS). Won the Robins prize for top performance in Biology for my school.
- AS - Biology, Chemistry, Maths, Physics, all A (99% UMS)
- GCSE - 9, all A*
- CREST Award - won a British Science Association Gold Award for a voluntary Summer project studying Developmental Neurobiology in the zebrafish at King’s College London.

## Other Interests

- **Teaching/Mentoring** - I am currently a volunteer coach at Codebar, coaching programming basics to minority students. I have always got a buzz from helping other people and have sought out opportunities to do so: twice I have volunteered to travel to China to teach schoolchildren and once as a residential advisor at a Summer camp in Oxford. I have also acted as mentor at Makers Academy and Sainsbury's. 
- **Learning** - perhaps my biggest driver, which has manifested itself in many forms and hobbies: reading non-fiction, starting my food business, spending a Summer at 16 researching neurobiology at KCL, building a wood-fired oven, building my food website). For me, tech and programming is an exciting and almost limitless opportunity to keep this going. 
- **Food** - if I hadn’t mentioned already. Along with the website and pizza oven, I'm always cooking, preserving, brewing and most importantly of all, eating.
- **Sport** - lifelong rugby fan (now retired from the real-deal, but a regular at the local touch rugby club) and now a new but enthusiastic climber (stuck on 6B, for now…).
- **Travel** - I love travelling (mostly to learn about history and food) and have spent nearly two years of my life travelling, teaching, working and volunteering around South-East Asia, South Asia, China and Taiwan.

## Links
- [Linkedin](https://www.linkedin.com/in/will-helliwell-671807130/)
- [Codewars](https://www.codewars.com/users/Will%20Helliwell)
- [MakeThatDish.com (my food website, made with Wordpress)](https://makethatdish.com/)

Commit message:

Projects section becomes link to portfolio.

README.md, after:

# Will Helliwell

| [Linkedin](https://www.linkedin.com/in/will-helliwell-671807130/) | [Technologies](#Technologies) | [Experience](#Experience) |[Projects](#Projects) | [Education](#Education) | [Interests](#Other-Interests) | [Links](#Links) |

I am a Full-stack Developer, combining my tech experience with a commercial and Cambridge STEM background. I am passionate about working alongside clients to solve tricky business problems, with 3 years experience creating inventive workarounds for problems and leading on the delivery of greenfield projects serving thousands of customers at a London start-up. I now want to apply these skills to solve difficult problems for new clients in new contexts.

## Technologies

- PostgreSQL MySQL, MongoDB
- AWS
- React, TypeScript, Next.js, Node.js,  
- WordPress, PHP
- Ruby,  
- Bash, Git

## Experience

| Name and dates               | Description       | Tech/tools        |
| ---------------------------- | ----------------- | ----------------- |
| **Senior Full Stack Developer, Switchd**<br>(Jun’21- present) | •Third Engineering hire and now line manager, developing for Switchd (automated energy switching service, 12000 subscribers) and the nascent MakeMyHouseGreen (solar installations, 50 per month).<br>• I recommended, designed and built key infrastructure for MakeMyHouseGreen: e.g. scalable and secure storage for all install documents/images in an AWS S3 (6k documents across 4k sales leads).<br>• I am leading the transformation of ways of working as Switchd moves to becoming a scale-up. I created and trained the team to use a CICD pipeline with automated deployment to AWS, and now am implementing automated testing and migrating from PHP to a React, TypeScript and Node.js stack.<br>• I designed and built a backend for our energy tracking service allowing users to monitor the performance of their installs, consisting of automated and transactional calls to a third-party API to retrieve, store and process the data for display to our customers. I played a key role in rapidly iterating the product to raise the PMF to 35% (so far, from a growing customer base of 50).<br>• I have started a culture of code quality by reviewing others’ code and leading weekly code quality sessions for debate  and documentation of ways to help us all learn to write simple, clean and reusable code. Now junior team members are actively reviewing others’ code and often leading the sessions. | Next.js, React, TypeScript, AWS, Github Actions, PHP, JavasScript, MySQL, Bootstrap |
| **Food Buyer, Sainsbury’s Head Office, London**<br>(Apr’17– Jun’19) | • I was promoted after 11 months to Cafe Buyer, owning the design of trading strategy (responsible for 350 stores and a £60m annual spend). I made data-driven decisions to keep the margin flat.<br>• I developed strong communication, contributing to Agile meetings and building supplier relationships.<br>• Communication and collaboration -  increased salad sales 20% YoY by designing a new range. Debated with Operations to find a pragmatic solution to launch, reducing menu complexity elsewhere. | |

## Projects

I recommend looking at my portfolio, which includes pictures and desciptions of my recent projects:<br>
<p align="center">
    <a href="https://portfolio-eight-blond-12.vercel.app/" target="_blank">Link to my portfolio</a><br>
    <i>(ctrl + click to open in a new tab)</i>
</p>

## Education

#### Makers Academy (November 20 to March 21)

Technologies and practices covered:<br>
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;• Object Oriented Programming<br>
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;• Testing and TDD (Rspec, Capybara, Jasmine, Cypress)<br>
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;• Agile/XP methodologies<br>
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;• Pair programming and group projects<br>
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;• MVC pattern<br>
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;• Full-stack frameworks (Ruby-on-Rails, MERN)<br>
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;• Front-end Frameworks (React, Bootstrap)<br>
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;• Databases: SQL (PostgreSQL) and no SQL (MongoDB)<br>
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;• Git, Travis CI, Heroku<br>

- I also volunteered as a mentor to help later students improve by giving both technical and general support.


#### Harvard CS50 (August 20 to present)

- I have now completed the C-based portion of the course to get a better understanding of how source code works ‘under the hood’.<br>

#### University of Cambridge (2013 to 2016)

- 2.1 in  Natural Sciences at Christ’s College, specialising in Developmental Biology and Cancer.<br>
- Used close attention to detail and data analysis to provide the first evidence for a specific signalling pathway in the nematode worm C.elegans. Clearly communicated the findings to a scientific panel.

#### RGS Guildford (2005 to 2012)

- A2 - Biology, Chemistry and Maths, all A* (98% UMS). Won the Robins prize for top performance in Biology for my school.
- AS - Biology, Chemistry, Maths, Physics, all A (99% UMS)
- GCSE - 9, all A*
- CREST Award - won a British Science Association Gold Award for a voluntary Summer project studying Developmental Neurobiology in the zebrafish at King’s College London.

## Other Interests

- **Teaching/Mentoring** - I am currently a volunteer coach at Codebar, coaching programming basics to minority students. I have always got a buzz from helping other people and have sought out opportunities to do so: twice I have volunteered to travel to China to teach schoolchildren and once as a residential advisor at a Summer camp in Oxford. I have also acted as mentor at Makers Academy and Sainsbury's. 
- **Learning** - perhaps my biggest driver, which has manifested itself in many forms and hobbies: reading non-fiction, starting my food business, spending a Summer at 16 researching neurobiology at KCL, building a wood-fired oven, building my food website). For me, tech and programming is an exciting and almost limitless opportunity to keep this going. 
- **Food** - if I hadn’t mentioned already. Along with the website and pizza oven, I'm always cooking, preserving, brewing and most importantly of all, eating.
- **Sport** - lifelong rugby fan (now retired from the real-deal, but a regular at the local touch rugby club) and now a new but enthusiastic climber (stuck on 6B, for now…).
- **Travel** - I love travelling (mostly to learn about history and food) and have spent nearly two years of my life travelling, teaching, working and volunteering around South-East Asia, South Asia, China and Taiwan.

## Links
- [Linkedin](https://www.linkedin.com/in/will-helliwell-671807130/)
- [Codewars](https://www.codewars.com/users/Will%20Helliwell)
- [MakeThatDish.com (my food website, made with Wordpress)](https://makethatdish.com/)
